Hey we'll welcome back.
So this video is just going to cover one character which is the logical or we use the pipe character
that most programming languages use for or it's above the return key.
I have to hit shift and then the ones that the backslash key to get it.
And it allows us to add sort of multiple options for things.
So here's an example where this will match either Mr or Mrs or Ms or going back to our telephone example
or our phone number.
Here's two different ways of writing the same phone number one has parens around the area code and another
doesn't.
Using what we have written so far where we match three digits spaced three digit space four digits that
only matches the first one not the second one.
If I wanted to optional the match so instead of just three digits it's a parentheses.
And then three digits and then the closing paren first we have to just discuss how we match Prendes
in the first place.
So I'm going to copy this and get.
Get rid of it for a second if I just try and do a Pirenne.
It doesn't match.
Just like if I tried to do a dot it wouldn't matter if there's a dot in here.
Pirenne has its own meaning we'll see in a moment what we want is backslash present and that matches
that opening.
And then we have backslash closing parentheses.
And then the second to match anything because we don't have the if they were in a row they would be
matched.
But inside we have three digits.
That's such a mess to look at.
You can see so this is the first print the see.
Then we want three digits so backslash D three times and that matches this.
That first little group.
So now comes the logical OR.
So we'll start with this for which is the pipe there will do three digits like that.
And now you can see we're matching three digits with parens around it or three digits period which is
also giving us these other ones so we could adapt this a bit of space space and then we have three digits
again.
And then a space and then four digits and you might think that this should work.
But what's actually happening is that it is going to match this the left side or this entire right side.
So that's not what we want the or part should only apply to the beginning and then the rest should be
the same.
So we add parentheses not with the backslash we're not escaping them we just had regular parens around
the part that we're choosing between the two options.
It's a nightmare to look at but you can see here.
Zoom way in.
What we have is this first group right here.
This is saying you're either going to have three digits with trends around it or just three plain digits.
Pick one of those then there has to be a space then three digits then a space then four digits.
So it's a lot to look at.
It's very ugly but it's very useful trying to do this on your own without projects and Python would
not be fun.
And now we match both numbers.
Those parents are optional.
OK.
I fast forwarded a bit.
I have a new example and we're going to talk more about parents using this example.
OK.
So we have two names here and I want to write a regular expression that will match a name that starts
with what you call this a prefix a title.
I don't know as a start with Mr. or Mrs. or ms.
We have Mr. Luca.
I think it's quite a guat a NINO.
I don't know.
It sounds some Spanish when I say it's Italian though and then I don't know if she's a Miss or Mrs.
Tilda Swinton doesn't matter.
Let's go with Mrs. for now and what we want to do is just match that pattern.
So that's easy enough.
We know we need to start using logical or we're going to select Mr. Period and it looks like it's working
here.
We're getting Mr. Period but down here it's doing m r s and remember period has its own meaning we want
backslash period to actually match it period.
OK.
Or will do.
Mrs. backslash period.
And now we're matching either of those but if we want to continue on with the rest of the string where
we're going to have you know a letters it's followed by a space followed by more letters.
If I just do it like this right now let's see that would be a way to capitalize the lowercase the that's
the easiest way to select the letters.
This is sort of working but not quite.
Because this same problem we saw earlier in selecting Mr. and that's it or Mrs..
Followed by letters.
So we need parens right here.
So that will select Mr. Period or Mrs. period then a space and then any number of letters.
So there's not really an easy way to do just the letters because if we do word character slash or backslash
w that includes underscores we don't want that.
So capital letters lower case letters.
And if you're working in a different language or different alphabet you could add those characters in
here manually.
Then we have a space and then just the same thing.
Eight is the A to Z repeated at least one time as many as one or more.
OK so this is working great and we're selecting this prefix whatever we call it optionally or not optional.
It has to be there but it's either Mr. or Mrs..
Then followed by first name space last name.
What I wanted to show you is that we can add parens around this.
The second thing the first and last name to differentiate it.
It's not going to make a difference to what matches the entire thing is still a match.
What we've done is actually group things together so that there's now two components to a match.
And if you look at match one versus match to each thing each match has two pieces.
There's Mr. then Luca got a name and then match to his missus till the Swinton.
This is very useful to group things together like this so it doesn't make a difference.
We're still matching the whole thing.
But those parents regular parents not a scaped parents regular parents.
It's our way of signifying that this content is a group.
And then in Python once we get there when I run this code and I use this rejects on a given string my
results will come to me in two parts.
Each result if there's more than one like there are here.
Each one will have Mr. or Mrs. and its own group and then first and last name with a space between is
a third component.
So you can also do this if I wanted to get the first name separate
and if you look at the results I get.
Now we have Mr then Luca is seperate then Grada Nino but it's still all has to be there just to be clear.
I can't just have Mr here.
It's not matched.
Everything has to be there.
OK.
So that's the utility of Perrin's right now.
It doesn't seem that great.
You know we just see them here shortly in this section when we actually write Python code using regular
expressions we use parens all the time because it's a way of altering the results that we get back signifying
that we won first and last to be separate so that you know whatever we're doing with them if we want
to save them into a database where we have a first column and a last column.
We don't have to manually take this and split it ourselves.
We can use a regular expression to get the three different components back or if we had more matching
you or else.
That's a really common one.
By the way if you feel like you get this just skip I'm just going to show another example but it's not
going to be anything brand new.
Let's say that we have a couple of you or else we have to keep yes we have an HTP let's go with Google
duck come something like that gets to you or else let's say that I want to match you a pattern.
To do that I'm going to start by see I want HTP and then we'll have s is optional then you have colon
slash slash like that that's matching that part.
And then we have the rest of the domain so that could be.
I can't remember exactly what characters are allowed.
Let's just say it's I think it's let's just say it's letters for now.
And underscores and dashes and can't have anything.
Well let's just say that's it.
I think there are more characters I can't remember exactly what can be in a you are up followed by a
plus.
And then we have the dot which you need to escape backslash dot followed by and let's just say this
is the same thing.
It's just not exactly accurate.
Let's just say any letters more than one butter.
And I didn't really say at a dot com in there twice.
All right so this works.
But what we could do is add a group using parentheses around.
Let's say we only want the domain name itself or let's do everything after that HEG PSU that HTP colon
slash slash everything after here.
I just put parentheses after that and Rapide in parens and now the matches that we're getting the parts
that in Python when we run this code and we matched against a string whatever we get back we'll have
to start with this.
But what we actually get back itself will look like this pipettes that order Google dot com so we can
still match a pattern but then we can break it into chunks and get the parts we want and I can do the
same thing around here and put parens in that would just give me a separate group that contains If it's
HTP or HTP they are separated out.
So I could do something with them.
OK.
So I know it's kind of contrived and we're not doing anything with it.
But shortly it will make a lot more sense.
We'll be a lot more useful once they're actually working in Python.
So that's coming up next.